what are the origins of these magic
numbers 80/10/10 and 95/5 I made a video
just a few days ago asking and answering
the question of what credentials freelee
the banana girl has freely as one of the
world's most influential leaders of diet
and exercise advice at the moment in
2016 and one of the tag lines that made
her famous her and her boyfriend during
Ryder was promoting the idea of a 95/5
diet now in that earlier video I quoted
her as saying that most of what she
knows is from self-study and her own
research I think it's really worth
pausing to consider what we mean by the
word research when she promotes a 95/5
diet does that mean that at one stage
she put on a lab coat got out a bunch of
test tubes and conducted original
research to establish that 95/5 was the
optimal number does it mean that she did
a cohort study where is this research
published what is the research she did
to come to this slogan this title this
magic number that sums up her diet 95/5
if you watch this video and you don't
know I'm happy for you that you don't
know but the 90 refers to 90 percent of
your diet being carbohydrates 5 percent
being fat 5 percent being protein was it
based on an in-depth analysis of the
results of the diets of 10 people or a
hundred people or a thousand people said
no no no it's not it's not gonna be you
know G 80/10/10 it's just the numbers
aren't quite coming out right we've got
a push forward with this original
research we're doing and oh there was no
research there was no scientific
discovery we all know that
the real origin of this slogan
9055 was simply a response to the
established popularity of another diet
that was called 80/10/10 80%
carbohydrates 10% fat 10% protein now
that in turn if you asked was it based
on research in what sense
could you call it research well that
originates with a guy called Doug Graham
dr. Doug Graham if you're searching on
the internet there is more than one
medical doctor named Doug Graham and one
of the first problems you'll have with
dr. Doug Graham the vegan promoter of
the 80/10/10 diet is figuring out what
his credentials are we've already gone
over the fact that Frehley doesn't
happen e dr. Doug Graham says that he
has a PhD in chiropractics so that would
make him a chiropractor and not a
medical doctor not a nutrition expert
not dietary expert and he also claims
that he has a PhD in natural health
I believe let me just check a doctorate
in natural health I was unable searching
the internet as well as I could with
Google used intensively I could not find
out where he got either one of those
PhDs what the institution was or what
his training was why would that be hard
to find out with legitimate medical
doctors or legitimate people with
legitimate phd's doing original research
in health that's not hard to find out
and the idea of a PhD that is called a
PhD in natural health that already
raises alarms for me um I'm not saying
it's completely impossible to have a PhD
called a PhD in natural health but
already I'm interested in what is the
name of the University and what is the
actual curriculum behind that because
that's not a PhD in the science of
nutrition or Dietetics or even
kinesiology you get a PhD in kinesiology
today and you learn a lot
but you don't learn the same things that
a medical doctor learns so on and so
forth each one of these academic
specialization is different now if
you're new to this channel you may not
know I myself am deeply cynical about
formal education but that doesn't mean
it's worthless
I myself have met many many people with
PhDs from elite institutions from Oxford
from Cambridge from the most elite
universities in the United States and
England and France who are idiots
I you also meet people with PhDs who are
not idiots but who are incompetent in
their own field of expertise of
specialization and for some people I
guess that would be shocking or that
would be that would be a surprising
revelation like not for me
that's something I've been familiar with
him and comfortable about my whole life
and I used to be a scholar involved with
tera vaada Buddhism with Southeast Asia
with the languages and politics of
Southeast Asia and many many times I got
to see that people who were professed
experts did not have basic competence in
the language they were supposed to be
expert in in the history and the
politics or they were religious maniacs
posing as secular scholars of a religion
like Buddhism who were really
intentionally spreading disinformation
so I am very familiar with that
now obviously the world of fad diets is
in some ways even more extreme because
the economics are even more extreme
people are making money out of this um
I'm gonna post a link below to a video
it's somewhat rambling from a natural
vegan in which she explains her reasons
for having lost faith in this guy
Douglas Graham who invented the 80/10/10
diet one of the most well documented
scientific advancements in the history
of human civilization is the effect of
fluoride in toothpaste and even without
fluoride the effects of toothpaste
simply as an abrasive agent in the
action of brushing your teeth because
there are there are fluoride free
toothpaste and the effects of that have
Albans
I need there's toothpaste with fluoride
and that's been studied and this this
guy so dr. Douglas Graham already you
have a tremendous warning sign about
what kind of doctor this is in that he
is recommending that you brush your
teeth without toothpaste right click on
the link below and really think about it
there are a lot of warning signs that
this guy who really should not be
calling himself doctor he's not a
medical doctor it's not clear what his
ph.d is where her came from to me there
were question marks floating around that
put above all else the origins of his
titular claim the claim that he makes
the title of his book 80/10/10 what was
the research that established that what
was the process of saying oh well I
don't know what why isn't it you know
eighty twelve eight why what was the
scientific process that led to this
sloganeering there there was none there
is no set you know this is a joke but to
what extent can you trust someone who
you know tells you not to use toothpaste
with any other health advice I think
that's a that's a very real question
when you compare 80/10/10 to ninety five
five the reality is that the contrast
between these two diets is exactly what
the title suggests ninety-five five is
one step further into madness into
nonsense Akala tea from people who have
no credentials who have done no research
it's freely says she did her own
research and self-study who did not
establish what they know through
research of any kind and it's one more
step away from any kind of sincere
engagement with the real world problems
that people encounter in trying to have
a healthy diet that's compatible with
their work schedule their limited
ability to exercise living in the real
world of 2016 which is not a world where
for example
you know raw organic produce is cheaply
or readily available to too many people
it's certainly not a world where you can
solve your b12 problems your need for
the vitamin owners be told by simply not
washing your fruit or by your can't
closely they gotta be kidding me
um I scientifically I doubt that's true
anywhere in the world but it is it is
definitely not true everywhere in the
world I remember one of the more bizarre
criticisms of my work when I was
publishing articles about Buddhism was
that I was an origin astaire had never
seen before that I was a person who put
an emphasis on the origins of things and
this was presented as if it were a
problem with my work this was
invalidated what I had to say or should
feel quite funny yes you have to be
really careful about the origins of
concepts and ideas and the motivations
that people have in employing them and
it is not with any I don't know jae-joon
belief in the education system
that I say you have to be very careful
about the credentials people have out
what credentials they claim where they
come from what they say about them I
would be entirely sympathetic if any of
these so-called experts were writing in
a really honest way about how lousy
their education was I do that myself I'm
very critical at the education I've
received in Canada of what's wrong with
our universities of what I did did and
didn't learn in the classroom and then I
also talk about what I learned outside
of the classroom what I learned
independently and through independent
research but I'll actually tell you what
that research was what it is what I
learned and so on so you know the
critique of the educational
establishment is something I am warm to
and encouraging of and regard very
positively
but that's not what we're talking about
here these self-appointed health experts
are strangely evasive in stating what
exactly their education was where they
got it how they got it what they learned
and then how it has been possible for
them to sustain pseudo-scientific and
anti scientific beliefs such as Doug
Graham denying the importance and
efficacy of using fluoride when you
brush your teeth denying the importance
of vitamin b12 and the problem of having
vitamin b12 deficiency those are really
fundamental warning signs that you
should not be willing to take this
person's advice at face value that you
should apply real scrutiny and real
doubt to what they're telling you um and
yeah what are the origins of the 95/5
diet I do think the origins matter I do
think that it matters that basically an
ex crackhead and his bimbo girlfriend
who were trying to get famous on the
internet simply came up with a sequel to
the 80/10/10 diet called the 95/5 diet
because it was one step more extreme it
was that bit more edgy and to me I don't
see any good motivation in that apart
from the fact that it's not
scientifically valid I don't think the
motivation there is to help you the
motivation there is not to discover the
truth or share the truth the motivation
there is not to help sick people you
know it's it's certainly possible to
criticize the guys behind the starch
starch solution diet you know mcdougal
and company they're not perfect but at
least their real-world experience is
sitting down next to people who have had
heart attacks and holding their hands
and talking to them and coaching them
through look if you don't want to have
another heart attack here's what we've
got to do and why
and again yeah formal credentials are
part of that you know the fact that
their medical doctor is dealing with
people with real diagnosed medical
conditions etc as part of that but human
sympathy is also part of that and the
intentions of why the diet was devised
and how it was spread and how it was
used in treatment those things don't
matter too